So let's go ahead and
start working on the next section, okay?
So we've set up, now,
I do wanna note really quickly,
if you're following along in the example
repositories, that's the URL,
This has branches in it.
And if you click here,
you'll see all of the branches of
everything we're gonna do today.
So we just finished this,
we're gonna get to this next.
Or actually, we finished this,
we finished this and we're here now, okay?
So we're gonna go to
setup-vcs-configuration.
Again, this is just so that you guys have
it if you wanna copy and paste code and
stuff like that to make
it a little easier?
But we're gonna still go
through it one-on-one.
So let me go back to my terraform.tfe,
switch back to my tab.
Okay, so as I just said, we committed
our code, we pushed it up, right?
Awesome, but do you guys think
that if I go into right now and
I change some code, you guys think that
it'll just do it automatically for
me because it's in Git now?
What do you guys think?
>> Probably won't if you don't tell it to.
>> Exactly, yeah, if you don't tell it to,
it's not gonna do anything, right?
And [LAUGH] it's so funny that you
said magic, because it is true.
There's half of it where it's very
magical, and then there's other than half
where it's, if you don't know what you're
doing, it's not gonna work at all.
[LAUGH] And so this is one of
those scenarios where, yeah,
we have to tell it, hey,
we need to synchronize to a repository.
The cool part about that is we actually
can do that in automation too,
which is pretty nice.
So the first thing we wanna do is is
we wanna connect to version control.
So what we're gonna do is is we're gonna
go to Settings in Terraform Cloud,
and we're gonna scroll all
the way to Version Control.
And then we're gonna click General.
Or, I'm sorry, Providers,
my bad, Providers, right?
So these are VCS providers.
These are the things that you can
actually connect git repositories to and
all that fun stuff.
I'm gonna hit Add VCS provider.
Now, it has a lot of options,
which is actually really nice.
They have integrated with
a lot of VCS providers.
For us, we want GitHub.
Now, you'll notice that I
already have it installed.
>> Yeah, my Terraform account is SSO.
>> You signed in through.
Then yeah, it might already be connected.
Yeah, so if you signed in via SSO,
you might already see this connected.
If you didn't have that,
you should have seen a GitHub link there.
[LAUGH] And when you click that,
it will then make it so
that you can select which account you
want to install Terraform Cloud into.
You can see here I have
a bunch of different accounts.
I wanna install it into my main account,
right?
So I'm gonna click on this, I'm gonna
tell it that I can access all my repos.
And then we're good to go.
Now, I'm not actually gonna go through
this process, right, because I just
wanted to show you what it looked
like to connect it to GitHub, right?
This is actually going into the workspace
and manually setting it up,
which is what we don't want to do, right?
We want this to be an automation.
So what we really wanna do is we
wanna figure out how we can add
this to automation, right?
And the biggest way to do that is first
we need to understand or know what
is the application in GitHub so that we
can tell it this is the one unique value.
Because we just installed it to GitHub,
we're gonna need the ID of that
installation so that when we
tell the code, hey, use GitHub,
it has the key or the ID of
the installation that it knows how to use.
So what we're gonna do first is we're
actually gonna navigate in GitHub one
more time to our settings and
installations where I just was.
So if you go to GitHub,
scroll to Applications,
you'll see Terraform Cloud sitting here.
What we wanna do is when we get here,
we wanna get the installation ID, right?
The installation ID is essentially, again,
the ID that we want to get and
use in our code.
So I'm gonna hit Configure, and
then I'm actually gonna do a little trick,
which I'm gonna go to the left,
I'm gonna go to my URL,
I'm gonna slide all the way over here.
You're good?
Cool, and then this is the ID.
So that's actually your
installation ID right there.
Yes, welcome to DevOps.
[LAUGH] This is the beauty of DevOps,
finding where they hide
the things you need.
And so yeah, sure enough, that's the only
real great place to find the installation
ID, but it will give it to you there.
So yeah, go ahead and
let me, you got that now?
Cool, okay.
So now that we have our installation ID,
just copy that,
put it somewhere in a notepad or
something like that.
But what we wanna do after we get that
installation ID is we wanna go back to our
automation and actually set it up so
that it can use that installation ID.
Now, I've already talked to you about
variables and locals and stuff like that,
where do you think we
should put this value?
Should it go in variables or
should it go in locals?
>> Probably variables.
>> Why?
>> Because it might depend
on what user is doing.
>> Exactly, yeah.
And it might change in the future,
you might disconnect.
You might do what we just did,
which is accidentally break it.
[LAUGH] And you have to disconnect it and
reconnect it.
Well, that means you got to go into
your automation, make a change, and
then rerun everything, right?
Or we can just make it a variable.
And so that variable then makes it so
that we can configure it elsewhere and
it becomes easier to manage.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna add two new variables.
The first one is gonna be our
github-app-installation-id, and
then the second one is going to be
our github-organization-name, right?
Now the reason why we have both of
these is because as we've said before,
Terraform Cloud doesn't really know
any of these things inherently,
at least in our code.
It might know it on the Cloud website, but
it won't know it in our
actual automation code.
And so this app installation ID,
we need to know that installation ID
because this is what is in Terraform
Clouds database, basically, right?
If we didn't have this, we'd have to
figure out another way of looking this up.
And I'll be honest,
this is the easiest way to manage this.
Data lookups, and
stuff like that become a little bit
more challenging with app installations.
So I think this is the best
way to approach this.
So what you're gonna do is, you're gonna
grab that app-installation-id that you
had from earlier, copy it, and we're just
gonna paste it right in here, right?
Then we can get this out of here,
and we're good.
Now the only other thing we need to change
is the organization-name, all right?
So we're gonna go here, and
you're gonna wanna give it
the github-organization-name.
Now you might be like, well,
what's an organization?
Just user, it's just your username.
[LAUGH] Yeah, so it's just your username.
My name is Erik Reinertsen.
Cool.
So we've got those two, right?
There's one other file we need to add,
and I'll put it up on the side so
you guys have it.
And this is what is called a data file,
data.tf.
Now again, this is just a naming
convention, you can call it flibbity
flurb, you can call it whatever you want,
[LAUGH] but I like to name the file
basically what all of the things are
inside it like I did with locals, right?
So locals has locals, data has data.
Data is essentially stuff that exists
outside of your current automation
that you need to look up, right,
things that you need to find.
And so what we really need to find
is our github-app-installation.
And that's on the Terraform Cloud side.
You guys see how we're slowly connecting
GitHub Terraform, we installed it, right?
So now Terraform and
GitHub can communicate with each other.
But we have to tell Terraform which
workspaces can have access to
the installation so
that we can set up that connection
between the workspace and the repository.
All we did was just authorize
Terraform to access it.
We didn't really tell it to
start syncing repos, right?
And so what we wanna do is we want to
pass that variable to a data lookup.
This is really the equivalent
of an API call, right?
It's gonna make an API call out to
Terraform Cloud and say, hey, I already
know your organization, I already know
your user, so somewhere in there,
there's got to be an installation
with this GitHub App ID in it.
If that's the case,
then I can find the Terraform side of it.
Once we have the Terraform side of it,
we can do one other thing.
Which is we can then go
to our main.tf file, and
we're gonna tell the workspace that it
needs to have what is called a VCS repo.
Oops, right?
So if we switch these, oops, sorry.
So if we switch these, get rid of
that really quickly, you can see that
I've also added a new block of
configuration to the root of my workspace.
Now, why do I want this here?
Why am I telling something
that every workspace
is going to be impacted by to
start tracking repositories?
Why might I wanna do that?
>> Because the workspaces are being
defined by those repositories.
>> Exactly, yeah.
So the idea is is that we're
gonna have a one-to-one,
where a workspace must have
a repo now going forward.
This is more of that chicken
before the egg scenario.
Where we didn't have a workspace, so
we had to create the workspace, right?
We had a repo, but
we had to create the repo first so
that we could then write the code to
then create the workspace, right?
However, after we committed that code and
we pushed it, nothing happened, right?
And the whole idea behind that is
because although we have it set up,
we don't have it connected yet, right?
And on top of that, we also know that
every workspace going forward from our
design, and again, I'll bring this up one
more time just so that you guys recall it,
but if we go back to our,
what's it called, the workflow, right?
Every workspace has a repo.
So going forward,
we wanna make sure that every workspace we
create asks for a repository,
and it must have that repo.
If it doesn't have it,
then it should not be created.
This is a standardization
that we're setting, right?
So that going forward you have to create
the repo so that we can then connect it.
And that's why that connection
to GitHub is so important.
Because going forward, Terraform has
to be able to access every single one
of the repos that you need to use, right?